---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: openSTB contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
---

# Version 0.7.0 (18 February 2026)

## Supported versions

* The minimum officially supported version of Python is now 3.12. This is in line with
  the [SPEC0](https://scientific-python.org/specs/spec-0000/) support window.


## Breaking changes

* Changed the point target interface [openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.PointTargets][] to
  access the points in chunks. This allows for more flexibility in scheduling simulation
  tasks. Existing target plugins will need to be updated to use this new interface.

* The existing point target plugins were changed to meet the new interface. For
  implementation reasons, the selected random positions for points will differ from
  previous versions even if the same seed is used (the statistical distribution of the
  positions remain the same, but the actual positions differ).

* The Simulation plugin interface was renamed to [Controller][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.Controller].
  This better reflects the purpose of the plugin, and removes the chance of confusion
  when referring to a simulation (was it the simulation, or the plugin controlling it).

* Systems must now be specified with a [System][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.System]
  plugin. The prior behaviour of allowing either a System plugin to be given or the
  elements to be defined individually added unnecessary complexity to the implementation
  of a controller. The [Generic][openstb.simulator.system.GenericSystem] plugin
  (registered as `generic`) can be used to collect the individual definitions.

* The [TravelTimeResult][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.TravelTimeResult] structure must
  now also specify the direction the sound was travelling when it reached a target, and
  the scattering direction as it echoed back towards the receiver. These are both given
  as unit vectors in global coordinates.


## New features

* Added a [ChunkedRNG][openstb.simulator.random.ChunkedRNG] class to generate chunks of
  random numbers on demand. This allows repeated access to the same random numbers,
  suitable for use in plugins which needed repeated and random-order access such as
  targets.

* Added an `openstb-sim seed` command to generate RNG seeds. This utilises NumPy's
  [SeedSequence][numpy.random.SeedSequence] to find a suitable source of entropy to form
  the seeds.

* Two commands were added to find available plugins. `openstb-sim plugin list` will list
  registered plugins, optionally filtering by type. `openstb-sim plugin search` will
  search the names and descriptions of registered plugins for a given keyword.


## Improvements

* The simple point controller was overhauled to use the new chunked interface to the
  targets. This lowers the memory usage of the controller process. Informal benchmarking
  suggests a small improvement in the runtime of simulations from this change.

* Documentation about some of the plugin types has been expanded, though there is still
  a lot of other plugins not fully described in the documentation yet.
