---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: openSTB contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
---

# Version 0.8.0 (17 April 2026)

## Breaking changes

* The [Distortion][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.Distortion] plugins used by the [simple
  points](../plugins/controller/simple_points.md) controller have been split into two
  lists. The `emitted_distortion` list is applied to the signal after transmission and
  before it reaches the target, while the `echo_distortion` list is applied to it after
  it scatters from the target and before it reaches the receiver. Simulation
  configurations must be updated to take this into account. For the same behaviour as
  earlier versions, put the contents of the old `distortion` list into the
  `emitted_distortion` list.

* The [Signal][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.Signal] plugin interface was updated to
  require a one-dimensional `t` vector when sampling the signal. It is anticipated that
  most existing uses of the plugin will have met this requirement anyway.

* The [PointTargets][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.PointTargets] plugin interface was
  updated to require the [`get_chunk`][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.PointTargets.get_chunk]
  indexing to remain within the bounds of the number of points in the object. It is
  anticipated that most existing uses of the plugin will have met this requirement
  anyway.


## New features

* A [PointLine][openstb.simulator.target.points.PointLine] point target plugin
  (registered as `point_line`) was added. This creates a line of point targets with
  equal reflectivity. It is parametrised by the position of the first point, the number
  of points and either the spacing between points or the position of the end point.

* A [HFMChirp][openstb.simulator.system.signal.HFMChirp] signal plugin (registered as
  `hfm_chirp`) was added. This implements a hyperbolic frequency modulated chirp, also
  known as a linear period modulated (LPM) chirp.


## Improvements

* The [AnslieMcColmAttenuation][openstb.simulator.distortion.environmental.AnslieMcColmAttenuation]
  and [GeometricSpreading][openstb.simulator.distortion.environmental.GeometricSpreading]
  plugins now allow the user to specify whether the transmit and/or receive path lengths
  should be used when scaling the signal.

* The [LFM chirp][openstb.simulator.system.signal.LFMChirp] forces the
  `rms_after_window` parameter to False if no window is specified. This allows a more
  accurate scaling as it can be calculated from the signal definition instead of having
  to numerically estimate it from the samples, in which case the accuracy depends on the
  sample rate.


## Fixes

* The [LFM chirp][openstb.simulator.system.signal.LFMChirp] was being scaled
  incorrectly. When calculating the existing RMS value (if the `rms_after_window` option
  was set) it was including samples outside the duration of the chirp. It now only uses
  the samples within the chirp.

* Similarly, the LFM chirp was assuming the sample spacing was constant when calculating
  the existing RMS value. Although it is expected this will typically be a valid
  assumption, it now weights the mean by the sample spacing to account for this.

* The [simple points](../plugins/controller/simple_points.md) controller now scales the
  forward FFT when changing domains. This means that the current signal passed to
  distortion plugins is now physically-relatable.

* The [DaskLocalCluster][openstb.simulator.cluster.dask_local.DaskLocalCluster] now
  correctly reports the port for the Dask dashboard. Previously, if the port in the
  input parameter was set to `:0` (pick a free port) then `:0` was reported in the log
  instead of the actual port in use.
