---
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: openSTB contributors
SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-2-Clause-Patent
---

# Version 0.9.0 (9 July 2026)

## Supported versions

* The minimum supported version of Dask and distributed is now 2025.11.0. Although this
  does not cover the full SPEC0 support window, this release added two features that the
  simulator makes use of.


## Breaking changes

* The `util` module was renamed to `utils` and split into sub-modules. The quaternion
  utilities now need to be imported from [`openstb.simulator.utils.quaternion`][].
  Attempting to import them directly from `util` will fail.

* The `abc.SimulationConfig` class was renamed to
  [`abc.ControllerConfig`][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.ControllerConfig] to match the
  naming of the Controller plugin it configures.


## New features

* Added the [ScatteringModel](../plugins/scattering_model/overview.md) plugin type to
  model acoustic scattering from an interface. Plugins for [constant
  scattering](../plugins/scattering_model/constant.md) and [Lambertian
  scattering](../plugins/scattering_model/lambertian.md) are included.

* A [circular trajectory](../plugins/trajectory/circular.md) plugin was added. This is
  registered under the name `circular`.

* The [`openstb.simulator.utils.reduction.DaskReductionTree`][] class was added to
  implement a generic reduction tree. This submits tasks to a Dask cluster to run
  user-provided reduction functions, and passes final results to a given output
  function.

* A [`openstb.simulator.controller.base.LoopController`][] base class was created to
  perform common actions for a simulation controller which loops over a set of
  variables.

* [`Environment`][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.Environment] plugins now provide a
  [`density`][openstb.simulator.plugin.abc.Environment.density] method. The base class
  provides a default implementation which estimates the density using the [Gibbs
  SeaWater toolbox](https://teos-10.github.io/GSW-Python/) so any existing plugins
  inheriting from the base class will work without modification.


## Improvements

* The [simple point controller][openstb.simulator.controller.simple_points.SimplePointSimulation]
  plugin was restructured to make the code cleaner. It now uses the new `LoopController`
  base class and `DaskReductionTree` utility added in this release.

* Clarified that the [salinity](../plugins/environment/interface.md#salinity) method of
  an Environment plugin should give the value in g/kg.

* Some of the static type hinting was simplified using features available in Python
  3.12+.


## Fixes

* The type hinting in the tests was fixed so the tests can run in a Python 3.12
  environment.


## Project management

* Various continuous integration workflows were added to check code quality and run the
  unit tests on push and pull request were added. This includes testing in an
  environment with the oldest supported versions of the dependencies.

* A CI workflow to publish released versions to PyPI using [trusted
  publishing](https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/) was added.
